## Decred In Depth: Stake Voting
### Visual Script

No. | VIDEO | AUDIO
--- | ----- | -----
1 | "Map" of Decred PoS sytem which looks like a circuitboard with nodes representing politeia, block validation, and upgrade voting. | Decred's unique proof-of-stake system allows stakeholders to secure the network and participate in its governance by voting with their coins.
2 | Coins are locked in a safe and a ticket is dispensed. | To take part in the proof-of-stake voting system, stakeholders lock a portion of their coins in exchange for a ticket.
3 | A pool of tickets. | All tickets are placed in the ticket pool where they wait to be randomly selected.
4 | Text "5 minutes". 5 tickets are pulled from the ticket pool. | Every block 5 tickets are drawn from the pool. 
5| Network "map" with ticket servers represented as servers with a ticket sign on them. (Sort of like blockbuster). 5 stake servers broadcast votes to the network. | Once their ticket is drawn, a ticket holder's votes are cast by their chosen stake server; a service which provides the infrastructure to ensure votes are broadcast to the network swiftly.
6 | Stream of thumbs up/down. Sheild and greek library. | The votes cast by ticket holders are essential to the security and governance of the Decred network.
7 | A block is added to a chain. 5 votes (thumbs up/down) pop out of the box and deem the previous one invalid by 4/1. The previous block turns red and falls out of the chain. | The 5 votes mined into each new block determine the validity of the previous one. If the previous block is deemed invalid, the transactions and proof-of-work reward are stripped from the network, punishing the miner for adding an invalid block to the chain. 
8 | Miner, 5 voters, and blockchain. The voters vote the new block valid both miner and voters recieve rewards. New miner and voters. Voter vote the block invalid. Miner gets no reward, voters do. | Voters are always rewarded whether the block is valid or not. By rejecting blocks that break the consensus rules, stakevoters stop miner attacks and prevent unwanted chain forks.
9 | Ballot box with a lightning bolt on it. Amount of votes (yes, no abstain) are 'digitally' counted. Above a new block is added to the chain and 5 votes fall into the ballot box. As the votes fall in the vote counts rise.| Decisions regarding consensus rule changes and network upgrades are also made by voters through an on-chain decision-making system. Through this system stakeholders have already voted to upgrade the algorithm responsible for setting ticket prices and to prepare the network for lightning transactions.
10 | Mockup of Politeia in Decrediton on a computer screen. Icons for 'cryptographically varifiable and transparency' | Thats not all. Cryptographic ticket "receipts" are used to verify ticket holders and allow them to interface with Politeia; Decred's chain-anchored proposal system. Through Politeia, users can participate in Decred self-governance by voting to determine which Decred improvement projects receive funding in a cryptographically verifiable and transparent manner.
11 | Safe holding coins is unlocked. More coins fall into a stakeholder's hand. | After a ticket holder's votes have been cast, the locked coins used to purchase the ticket are returned and the voter reward is credited to their account. They can then choose to purchase another ticket, or spend their funds elsewhere.
12 | back to 'map' from opening. | Thanks to its unique proof-of-stake voting system, Decred is an autonomous self-funded crypto-currency where stakeholders make the rules.
13 | Text: Decred.org. Text: Decred.org/buy. | To begin contributing to the security and governance of the Decred network, download Decrediton at Decred.org and purchase Decred at any one of the many supporting exchanges.
14 | Decred logo. Text: Decentralized Credits. | Decred; Decentralized Credits 
 